README.md, before:

# heptapod

This is a command line application to manage and fine-tune
[Time Machine](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201250) exclude paths.

<details>
  <summary>Why it is named after creatures from Arrival?</summary>
Heptapods are extraterrestrial species from the movie Arrival.
They are special because they have non-linear time perspective.
Their written language (Heptapod B) is basically describes 
the future and the past in the same time. Hence the name of the tool.
</details>

### Install

```sh
brew tap tg44/heptapod
```
```sh
brew install heptapod
```

### Usage

```
heptapod -h
heptapod <action> -h
```
Will print help!

```
mkdir -p ~/.heptapod/rules
cp -R $(brew --prefix heptapod)/rules ~/.heptapod
```
This will move the currently added ruleset to `~/.heptapod/rules`

```
heptapod ls -a
```
Lists all the rules (you get 4 tables, enabled, disabled, parseable but unrunable and unparsable).

```
heptapod lse
```
Could list all the currently excluded TM paths.

```
heptapod -v run -d
```
Will dryrun the current rules, will log speed informations. (Potentially list nonexistent directories and files!)

```
heptapod run
```
Will run the current rules, and add them to the TM exclude list. Also writes exclude logs to `~/.heptapod/logs` (or the given `--logDir dir`) for easier revert.

```
heptapod prune -a
```
Will revert all the previously added paths from the run-exclude-logs. (`prune -h` could tell you the other useful revert options).




### Notes for TM migrating to a new machine
When you try to migrate your TM state to a new machine
`xcode-select --install` may be needed. Somehow this is 
sometimes not migrating as you thought it will.

### Rules
Every rule has a searchPaths, ignorePaths.
 - `name` for categorization
 - `enabled` for easier enable/disable
 - `searchPaths` are the root of the rule search like `~`
 - `ignorePaths` are subpaths that we want to ignore to make the run quicker
   - like we want to parse dirs under `~`, but not `~/Downloads`
 - `type` is the ruletype
   - `file-trigger`
   - `regexp`
   - `ignore-files`
 - `settings` other type setting see below

#### Ignore (not yet implemented)
Parses the `.gitignore` or `.dockerignore` files, and excludes its contents.
 - `forceAddPaths` are files that we add even if they would be otherwise excluded
   - like `.gitignore` ignores `.env` files but we forcefully want to add them back 
 - `fileName`
   - `.gitignore` or `.dockerignore`

#### Regexp (not yet implemented)
Ignores all files/folders with the given regexp. This can be slow!
 - `regexp`

#### File trigger
Ignores files/dirs based on other files existence, made for easy language dep ignores.
 - `fileTrigger` like `package.json` or `.git`
 - `excludePaths` like `node-modules` or `.`

### Credits
 - [asimov](https://github.com/stevegrunwell/asimov)
 - [tmignore](https://github.com/samuelmeuli/tmignore)
 - [various stack exchange responses](https://superuser.com/questions/1161038/exclude-folders-by-regex-from-time-machine-backup)
 - [tmutil](https://ss64.com/osx/tmutil.html)

### Contribution
If you are interested in this repo, star it, and write an issue, and we can talk about future ideas there!


### Repo/developement state
done:
- architecture the protocol/configs
- most of asimov's features are ported
- example rules added
- command line interface
- option to dryrun, show inner states, write to file
- purge option
   - we should write down what paths excluded by us, and include them back
- brew package
- ghactions

todos:
- handle global deps (m2, ivy, nvm, npm)
- support tmignore functionality
- support tmignore like funcionality with dockerignore
- regexp pattern
- hook to rerun periodically/before tmbackups
- port asimov's issues (spotify, spotlight)
- docker support (at least tell if docker vm is persisted or not)
   - this is kinda easy with tmutil.GetExcludeList()
- android vms?
   - this should be also easy
- preemptive search that tells you how many files with which size will be excluded/included
   - nice to have, we can tell the sizes, but counting files need to actually count the files which could be slow AH
- speedtest it
- modify the backup intervals and frequencies
   - not sure it can be done with tmutil, but there are applications for this
- probably adding `.` and `..` will break the execution shortcuts and need to fix them
- wildcards like `*.sh` not working right now, do we want to make them work?

Commit message:

refactored cli, added rule edit commands, fixes
fixes #3

README.md, after:

# heptapod

This is a command line application to manage and fine-tune
[Time Machine](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201250) exclude paths.

<details>
  <summary>Why it is named after creatures from Arrival?</summary>
Heptapods are extraterrestrial species from the movie Arrival.
They are special because they have non-linear time perspective.
Their written language (Heptapod B) is basically describes 
the future and the past in the same time. Hence the name of the tool.
</details>

### Install

```sh
brew tap tg44/heptapod
```
```sh
brew install heptapod
```

### Usage

To print help;
```
heptapod -h
heptapod <action> -h
```

Move (and use) the default ruleset;
```
mkdir -p ~/.heptapod/rules
cp -R $(brew --prefix heptapod)/rules ~/.heptapod
```

Lists all the rules (you get 4 tables, enabled, disabled, parseable but unrunable and unparsable).
```
heptapod rules ls -a
```

Enable/disable rules (by name), or add/remove ignore folders;
```
heptapod rules disable node bower
heptapod rules enable bower
heptapod rules ignoreAdd ~/.Trash ~/.yarn/cache ~/Library
heptapod rules ignoreRemove ~/.Trash
```

List all the currently excluded TM paths;
```
heptapod tm ls
```

Dryrun the current rules, in verbose mode, also log speed and debug informations. (Potentially list nonexistent directories and files!)
```
heptapod -v run -d
```

To run the current rules, and add the dirs to the TM exclude list. Also writes exclude logs to `~/.heptapod/logs` (or the given `--logDir dir`) for easier revert.
```
heptapod run
```

To revert all the previously added paths from the run-exclude-logs. (`prune -h` could tell you the other useful revert options).
```
heptapod prune -a
```

### Notes for TM migrating to a new machine
When you try to migrate your TM state to a new machine
`xcode-select --install` may be needed. Somehow this is 
sometimes not migrating as you thought it will.

### Rules
Every rule has a searchPaths, ignorePaths.
 - `name` for categorization
 - `enabled` for easier enable/disable
 - `searchPaths` are the root of the rule search like `~`
 - `ignorePaths` are subpaths that we want to ignore to make the run quicker
   - like we want to parse dirs under `~`, but not `~/Downloads`
 - `type` is the ruletype
   - `file-trigger`
   - `regexp`
   - `ignore-files`
 - `settings` other type setting see below

#### Ignore (not yet implemented)
Parses the `.gitignore` or `.dockerignore` files, and excludes its contents.
 - `forceAddPaths` are files that we add even if they would be otherwise excluded
   - like `.gitignore` ignores `.env` files but we forcefully want to add them back 
 - `fileName`
   - `.gitignore` or `.dockerignore`

#### Regexp (not yet implemented)
Ignores all files/folders with the given regexp. This can be slow!
 - `regexp`

#### File trigger
Ignores files/dirs based on other files existence, made for easy language dep ignores.
 - `fileTrigger` like `package.json` or `.git`
 - `excludePaths` like `node-modules` or `.`

### Credits
 - [asimov](https://github.com/stevegrunwell/asimov)
 - [tmignore](https://github.com/samuelmeuli/tmignore)
 - [various stack exchange responses](https://superuser.com/questions/1161038/exclude-folders-by-regex-from-time-machine-backup)
 - [tmutil](https://ss64.com/osx/tmutil.html)

### Contribution
If you are interested in this repo, star it, and write an issue, and we can talk about future ideas there!


### Repo/developement state
done:
- architecture the protocol/configs
- most of asimov's features are ported
- example rules added
- command line interface
- option to dryrun, show inner states, write to file
- purge option
   - we should write down what paths excluded by us, and include them back
- brew package
- ghactions
- rule manage commands (list/enable/disable/ignoreAdd/ignoreRemove)

todos:
- handle global deps (m2, ivy, nvm, npm)
- support tmignore functionality
- support tmignore like funcionality with dockerignore
- regexp pattern
- hook to rerun periodically/before tmbackups
- port asimov's issues (spotify, spotlight)
- docker support (at least tell if docker vm is persisted or not)
   - this is kinda easy with tmutil.GetExcludeList()
- android vms?
   - this should be also easy
- preemptive search that tells you how many files with which size will be excluded/included
   - nice to have, we can tell the sizes, but counting files need to actually count the files which could be slow AH
- speedtest it
- modify the backup intervals and frequencies
   - not sure it can be done with tmutil, but there are applications for this
- probably adding `.` and `..` will break the execution shortcuts and need to fix them
- wildcards like `*.sh` not working right now, do we want to make them work?
